docsrc/quickstart.rst, before:

##########
Quickstart
##########

This page provides a quick reference to the commands you'll need to operate
this package. For a more in-depth look at any of these operations, see the
corresponding page of the documentation.

.. note::

   This package was developed using :code:`python3.9.7` on :code:`Ubuntu
   20.04`. For this documentation, we've aliased :code:`python=python3.9`.

#. Initialize your environment. We recommend using virtual environments.

   .. code-block:: bash

      python -m venv .venv
      source .venv/bin/activate
      python -m pip install --upgrade pip
      python -m pip install -r requirements.txt

#. For this pipeline to work, you will need a list of positive (target)
   articles to use as training data.
   
   The Methuselah Foundation has provided this data in the form of mailbox
   dumps, where the PubMed IDs (PMIDs) are contained within text-based emails.

   Currently, two such files have been provided. Place these files in the data
   folder, naming them :code:`dump1.mbox` and :code:`dump2.mbox`. (It does not
   matter which is which.) Then, to extract these PMIDs, run:

   .. code-block:: bash

      python litmon/mbox.py

   This will save the extracted PMIDs into the :code:`data/pmid.txt` file.

   If you do NOT have access to the mailbox dump files, then you will need to
   develop your own list of positive PMIDs to use for training. Save these
   PMIDs to :code:`data/pmid.txt`, with one PMID on each line.

#. The next step is to pull the full journal article for each positive PMID. To
   do so, run:

   .. code-block:: bash

      python litmon/pos.py

   This will pull the positive articles using the :code:`pymed` package, saving
   them to :code:`data/pos.csv`.

#. Next, you will need to build a database of positive and negative (target and
   non-target) articles to train your model. Negative articles are pulled that
   match the date range of your positive articles, and are pulled via a PubMed
   query provided in :code:`config/std.yaml`.

   .. code-block:: bash

      python litmon/dbase.py

   Progress is logged to :code:`logs/dbase.log`. The resulting database in
   output to :code:`data/dbase.csv`.

#. Create fitting and evaluating sets from your database with:

   .. code-block:: bash

      python litmon/split.py

   This will create a :code:`data/fit.csv` file and a :code:`data/eval.csv`
   file.

#. Vectorize the articles in your fitting/evaluation sets with:

   .. code-block:: bash

      python litmon/vec.py
   
   This will output your vectorized documents to :code:`fit.npy` and
   :code:`eval.npy` binary files.

Commit message:

scoring eval articles w/ ML models
Squashed commit of the following:

commit 035a70c2944d605dd327477aaf4fee27a58c76d3
Author: Mike Powell <mike@lakeslegendaries.com>
Date:   Wed Nov 10 21:22:54 2021 -0500

    unused import

commit b3af60f5c06ade7132e88eb3e1530cf24cc726b7
Author: Mike Powell <mike@lakeslegendaries.com>
Date:   Wed Nov 10 21:22:01 2021 -0500

    vectorizing eval set iin chunks

commit 3e4ba1c8195eeaecba218c6e196a046709e776d5
Author: Mike Powell <mike@lakeslegendaries.com>
Date:   Wed Nov 10 21:12:45 2021 -0500

    better docstrings

commit d021b562e08f00747b00e7e09ad5baa408be6457
Author: Mike Powell <mike@lakeslegendaries.com>
Date:   Wed Nov 10 21:05:53 2021 -0500

    documentation for modeler

commit 4282bf0d27fac6c8f74bf9df03158fed803db31e
Author: Mike Powell <mike@lakeslegendaries.com>
Date:   Wed Nov 10 21:00:37 2021 -0500

    switching to LinearSVR

commit 69623c8a7d481516c802b82d2788e8df36b0a54e
Author: Mike Powell <mike@lakeslegendaries.com>
Date:   Wed Nov 10 20:59:56 2021 -0500

    testing modeler

commit 531a27f2e7c644cfd9ab7c001edc66cd79199c7b
Author: Mike Powell <mike@lakeslegendaries.com>
Date:   Wed Nov 10 20:47:12 2021 -0500

    streamlining file names

commit 3259c22429ac8a4a348fbf9d6fc37f3169a5dd6e
Author: Mike Powell <mike@lakeslegendaries.com>
Date:   Wed Nov 10 20:40:52 2021 -0500

    updating config file for modeler

commit e9fed93f0397c77ad73e06e37b4870e67c90aee8
Author: Mike Powell <mike@lakeslegendaries.com>
Date:   Wed Nov 10 20:37:18 2021 -0500

    Modeler

commit 670c589fb0cf03f73d523b39ebe9772850aea9ad
Author: Mike Powell <mike@lakeslegendaries.com>
Date:   Wed Nov 10 20:36:54 2021 -0500

    xgboost in requirements

commit 14ccaa6ae36b29e78f290f8c5cd9faf8788fbe42
Author: Mike Powell <mike@lakeslegendaries.com>
Date:   Wed Nov 10 20:36:08 2021 -0500

    removing cli pmid code

docsrc/quickstart.rst, after:

##########
Quickstart
##########

This page provides a quick reference to the commands you'll need to operate
this package. For a more in-depth look at any of these operations, see the
corresponding page of the documentation.

.. note::

   This package was developed using :code:`python3.9.7` on :code:`Ubuntu
   20.04`. For this documentation, we've aliased :code:`python=python3.9`.

#. Initialize your environment. We recommend using virtual environments.

   .. code-block:: bash

      python -m venv .venv
      source .venv/bin/activate
      python -m pip install --upgrade pip
      python -m pip install -r requirements.txt

#. For this pipeline to work, you will need a list of positive (target)
   articles to use as training data.
   
   The Methuselah Foundation has provided this data in the form of mailbox
   dumps, where the PubMed IDs (PMIDs) are contained within text-based emails.

   Currently, two such files have been provided. Place these files in the data
   folder, naming them :code:`dump1.mbox` and :code:`dump2.mbox`. (It does not
   matter which is which.) Then, to extract these PMIDs, run:

   .. code-block:: bash

      python litmon/mbox.py

   This will save the extracted PMIDs into the :code:`data/pmid.txt` file.

   If you do NOT have access to the mailbox dump files, then you will need to
   develop your own list of positive PMIDs to use for training. Save these
   PMIDs to :code:`data/pmid.txt`, with one PMID on each line.

#. The next step is to pull the full journal article for each positive PMID. To
   do so, run:

   .. code-block:: bash

      python litmon/pos.py

   This will pull the positive articles using the :code:`pymed` package, saving
   them to :code:`data/pos.csv`.

#. Next, you will need to build a database of positive and negative (target and
   non-target) articles to train your model. Negative articles are pulled that
   match the date range of your positive articles, and are pulled via a PubMed
   query provided in :code:`config/std.yaml`.

   .. code-block:: bash

      python litmon/dbase.py

   Progress is logged to :code:`logs/dbase.log`. The resulting database in
   output to :code:`data/dbase.csv`.

#. Create fitting and evaluating sets from your database with:

   .. code-block:: bash

      python litmon/split.py

   This will create a :code:`data/fit.csv` file and a :code:`data/eval.csv`
   file.

#. Vectorize the articles in your fitting/evaluation sets with:

   .. code-block:: bash

      python litmon/vec.py
   
   This will output your vectorized documents to :code:`data/fit.npy` and
   :code:`data/eval.npy`.

#. Build ML models to score the articles in the evaluation set with:

   .. code-block:: bash

      python litmon/model.py

   The scores for the evaluation set are written to
   :code:`data/eval_scores.npy`.
